Project Migration from Local to Cloud AWS with Helm Charts and Terraform
This document outlines the steps for migrating your project from a local environment to the AWS cloud using Helm charts and Terraform. The goal is to achieve automated deployments based on regular pushes to your GitHub repository.

Key Points:

Continuous Integration: Developers push changes to a GitHub repository, triggering a CI/CD pipeline.
Docker Image Build: Each push triggers the creation of a new Docker image with a unique tag.
Automatic Deployment: The new tagged image automatically deploys to a Kubernetes cluster through Helm charts and Terraform.
Helm Chart Templates: Utilize Helm chart templates for modular and reusable deployments.
Terraform Script: Automate infrastructure provisioning and configuration using Terraform.
Steps:

Configure CI/CD pipeline:

Set up a CI/CD pipeline using tools like Jenkins, Gitlab CI/CD, or Travis CI.
When a push occurs to GitHub, the CI/CD pipeline triggers the following tasks:
Build a new Docker image with a unique tag based on the Git commit hash.
Push the image to a Docker registry like Amazon ECR.
Create Helm Charts:

Develop Helm chart templates for your application deployment.
Use template variables to inject dynamic values like image tag and configuration details.
Define a Chart.yaml file with information about your chart.
Utilize Helm chart hooks for pre- and post-deployment tasks.
Develop Terraform Script:

Create a Terraform script to provision resources on AWS:
VPC, Subnets, Security Groups
EKS Cluster with worker nodes
IAM Roles and Permissions for ECR access
Storage volumes
Kubernetes manifests and deployments
Leverage Terraform variables to define configuration details.
Implement Terraform modules for reusable infrastructure components.
Automate Deployment:

Integrate your CI/CD pipeline with Terraform.
Upon a successful Docker image build and push, trigger a Terraform apply command.
This will automatically update the Kubernetes cluster with the new Docker image, ensuring a seamless deployment.
Benefits:

Increased Efficiency: Automated deployments save time and effort compared to manual processes.
Scalability: Easily scale your application by adding more nodes to the EKS cluster.
Reproducibility: Infrastructure and deployments are defined in code, ensuring consistency and reproducibility.
Version Control: Git repository tracks changes and allows rollback to previous versions.
Tools:

Git
Docker
Helm
Terraform
EKS
CI/CD pipeline (Jenkins, Gitlab CI/CD, Travis CI)
Docker registry (Amazon ECR)
Additional Notes:

Consider implementing Blue/Green deployments for zero-downtime updates.
Utilize autoscalers to automatically adjust resources based on demand.
Monitor your application performance and resource utilization.
Resources:

AWS Cloud Migration Guide: https://aws.amazon.com/application-migration-service/
Helm Charts Tutorial: https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=w51lDVuRWuk
Terraform by HashiCorp: https://www.terraform.io/
Disclaimer:

This information is provided as a general guide and may not be suitable for all projects. Customize and adapt the steps based on your specific needs and environment.


Integrating Jenkins with Terraform
Install Jenkins Terraform Plugin:

In Jenkins, navigate to "Manage Jenkins" -> "Manage Plugins" -> "Available" tab.
Search for "Terraform" and install the "HashiCorp Terraform" plugin.
Configure Terraform in Jenkins:

In Jenkins, go to "Manage Jenkins" -> "Global Tool Configuration."
Add a new Terraform installation. Provide the path to the Terraform executable.
Configure Jenkins Credentials:

In Jenkins, go to "Manage Jenkins" -> "Manage Credentials."
Add your AWS credentials as "Secret text" for access to AWS services.
Update Jenkinsfile:

Update the Jenkinsfile with Terraform commands.
Use the "Terraform" Jenkins plugin to execute Terraform commands. For example:
groovy
Copy code
stage('Terraform Apply') {
    steps {
        script {
            withCredentials([string(credentialsId: 'aws-credentials-id', variable: 'AWS_CREDENTIALS')]) {
                sh """
                    terraform init
                    terraform apply -auto-approve
                """
            }
        }
    }
}
Make sure to replace placeholders and customize the scripts according to your specific project details. Adjust the Terraform commands in the Jenkinsfile based on your Terraform script structure and requirements.





